Intro :

    This Chapter is about techniques and consideration on how to write a code both clean and 
    handle the error without changing its logic.

Use exceptions rather than error code :

    Always prefer to use error handling usig try/catch block instead of an error code as we should 
    check for the error after calling it in error code and we may forget once so better go to 
    error handling it also separates the good code from the error code .

Write try catch final statement first :

    If we feel that our code may get an error at some possiblitity we can add it in the try block 
    followed by catch block so that the program does not get terminated due to exception and also 
    we can refactor our code as per the exception

    Try to write tests that force exceptions, and then add behavior to your handler to satisfy 
    your tests. This will cause you to build the transaction scope of the try block first and
    will help you maintain the transaction nature of that scope.

Use unchecked Exception :

    It is best to prefer unchecked exception than checked exception as if we throw a checked 
    exception above three level it is hard to handle them .

Provide Context with exceptions :

    Provide detailed Context Message to the error such as error location error type so that 
    we can handle them later 

Define Exception classes in terms of caller needs :

    We can clarify error by their source 
    if it is by the file or program error or system requirement or a program error

    Our most important concern on the error handling should be" how they are caught 

    We can wrap the third party app into a class to give our own exceptions for it and
    to handle the errors 

    Wrapping also makes it easier to mock out third-party calls when you are
    testing your own code.

Define the Normal flow :

    Some times we may not want to abort a code by exception 

    eg : if we are checking the total price of an employee included with meals price in it
    we can return the complete total of expence of the employee .

    Instead the meal expense is not added we can return a meal per day to employee 

    In this cases we should not handle it like an exception instead we can make a special case
    and return the per day meal as default in total if there is no meal expence in the account .

    SPECIAL CASE PATTERN [Fowler]. You create a class or configure an object so that it handles a 
    special case for you. When you do, the client code doesn’t have to deal with exceptional 
    behavior. That behavior is encapsulated in the special case object.


Do Not return Null : 

   Do not return  a Null valur in a program as it only leads to Null pointer error and we should
   handle them at some point 

Do not pass Null ass an argument :

Again we may have to handle the null pointer exception if we pass Null as a argument in a 
program .

So never return or pass a null value in a program 



